# Predictive Maintainence of water pumping system using Machine learning
**Description of the Repository**
This repository showcases the application of machine learning for predictive maintenance of Water pumping system with effective use IoT data generated by system sensors

### Motivation of the Project
  India is suffering from one of the world's worst national water crises according to [Financal Express](https://www.financialexpress.com/lifestyle/science/indias-water-crisis-is-there-a-solution/2089860/#:~:text=India%20is%20suffering%20from%20one,global%20water%20and%20sanitation%20crisis.&text=retail%20bottled%20water.-,More%20than%2050%25%20of%20the%20population%20has%20no%20access%20to,of%20access%20to%20safe%20water.). In fact, it is considered the center of the global water and sanitation crisis. More than 50% of the population has no access to safe drinking water. To over come these, advanced pumping systems such as solar, recycling plans were induced.
  
  With these measures,in a locality, water is scheduled to pump. If the water pumping system **breaksdown** in these tight schedules or goes under repair, it will lead to the suffering of a common man. Hence it becomes very important to **understand and predict the status of water pumping system** (Normal, Broken, Repair)
  
  
  In this Project we are using real-world water pumping data from a small locality located in big town. Data being used is secoundary. According to the [source](https://www.kaggle.com/nphantawee/pump-sensor-data), there are 7 system failurs. To understand the pattern an tackle the problems on a larger scale, we will be Designing and Developing a machine learning solution
  
### Tasks Done for achieving the goal
* Understanding the Data
* Exploratory Data Analysis (Statistical and graphical) 
* Principal Component Analysis
* Clustering
* Feature Engineering
* Experimentation Design
* Supervised learning

## Outcome
A storyboard explaining the preventive actions
